docs: initial content for UI Styling in NativeScript (#19)
NativeScript/docs: content/guide/ui/styling.md

---
title: Styling
---

> In NativeScript you style the UI similarly to how you do it in a web application using Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), or by changing the style property of the views in JavaScript/Typescript. For CSS styling, NativeScript supports tools such as [Tailwind](https://docs.nativescript.org/plugins/tailwindcss.html), [SASS](#using-sass). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In NativeScript, UIs are styled similarly to how web applications using Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) are styled, or by changing the style property of the views in JavaScript/Typescript.  For CSS styling, NativeScript supports tools such as [Tailwind](https://docs.nativescript.org/plugins/tailwindcss.html), [SASS](#using-sass). 
```

Reviewer: It is worth pointing out that SCSS and SASS can be used in place of CSS.

> In NativeScript you style the UI similarly to how you do it in a web application using Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), or by changing the style property of the views in JavaScript/Typescript. For CSS styling, NativeScript supports tools such as [Tailwind](https://docs.nativescript.org/plugins/tailwindcss.html), [SASS](#using-sass). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In NativeScript you style the UI similarly to how you do it in a web application using Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), or by changing the style property of the views in JavaScript/Typescript. For CSS styling, NativeScript supports tools such as [Tailwind](https://docs.nativescript.org/plugins/tailwindcss.html), [SASS](#using-sass). 
```

In NativeScript, UIs are styled similarly to how web applications using Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) are styled or by changing the style property of the views in JavaScript/TypeScript. For CSS styling, NativeScript supports tools such as [Tailwind](https://docs.nativescript.org/plugins/tailwindcss.html) and [SASS](#using-sass).

Reviewer 2: @NathanWalker

Similarly to the DOM Style Object, each View instance exposes a style property, which holds all the style properties for the view. When the view is displayed, all its style properties are applied to the underlying native widget.

## Applying CSS styles

In NativeScript the CSS styles can be set on 4 different levels:

- [Application-wide CSS](#application-wide-css): Applies to every application page
- [Page-specific CSS](#page-specific-css): Applies to the page's UI views
<!-- - [Component-specific CSS](#component-specific-css): Applies for component only -->
- [Inline CSS](#inline-css): Applies directly to a UI view
- [Platform-specific CSS](#platform-specific-css)

> If there is CSS declared on different levels&mdash;all will be applied. The inline CSS will have the highest priority and the application CSS will have the lowest priority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like with web development, if there is CSS declared on different levels&mdash;all will be applied. The inline CSS will have the highest priority and the application CSS will have the lowest priority, with classes having a lower priority to IDs.  If multiple classes are called and they use the same properties, the last class called overwrites the previous property value.
```

> If there is CSS declared on different levels&mdash;all will be applied. The inline CSS will have the highest priority and the application CSS will have the lowest priority.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there is CSS declared on different levels&mdash;all will be applied. The inline CSS will have the highest priority and the application CSS will have the lowest priority.
```

If CSS is declared at different levels, all styles will be applied. Inline CSS takes the highest priority, while application-level CSS has the lowest priority.

.mystyle { ... }
```

///

At build time, NativeScript will automatically import the common styles and choose the correct iOS or Android stylesheet depending on the target build platform.

## Supported CSS Properties

This list of properties can be set in CSS or through the style property of each view:

<!-- TODO: fix links -->

| CSS Property          | JavaScript Property   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| :-------------------- | :-------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `color`               | `color`               | Sets a solid-color value to the matched view’s foreground.                                                                                                                                                                                |

> | `background`          | `background`          | Sets a solid-color value or [a linear gradient](https://docs.nativescript.org/cookbook/ui/styling) to the matched view’s background.                                                                                                      |

Reviewer: Broken link, as mentioned on line 206

| `text-transform`      | `textTransform`       | Sets the text transform. Possible values: `none`, `capitalize`, `uppercase`, `lowercase`.                                                                                                                                                 |
| `letter-spacing`      | `letterSpacing`       | Sets the text letter spacing. (On Android API Level 21 and above.)                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `line-height`         | `lineHeight`          | Sets the text line height                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `z-index`             | `zIndex`              | Sets the z-index. (On Android API Level 21 and above.)                                                                                                                                                                                    |

> | `clip-path`           | `clip-path`           | Sets the clip-path. Supported shapes are circle, ellipse, rect and polygon. You can define your own shape using [clippy](http://bennettfeely.com/clippy/)                                                                                 |

Reviewer: Is it `clip-path`, or is it `clipPath`?

Reviewer: There is no need for the / at the end of the link.

| `android-elevation`                    | `androidElevation`                 | **Android** | `View`        | Sets the elevation of the View in Android.                                                                                       |
| `android-dynamic-elevation-offset `    | `androidDynamicElevationOffset`    | **Android** | `View`        | Sets the elevation of the View in Android, which will be shown when an action was performed(e.g. `tap`, `touch`).                |
| `off-background-color`                 | `offBackgroundColor`               | Both        | `Switch`      | Sets the background color of the Switch when it is turned off.                                                                   |
| `highlight-color`                      | `highlightColor`                   | Both        | `TabStrip`    | Gets or sets the underline color of the selected `TabStripItem`.                                                                 |

::: warning Note

> Currently, we can set only the `backgroundColor`, `color`, `fontFamily`, `fontSize`, `fontStyle`, `fontWeight` and `textTransform` styling properties to the `Label` and `Image` components inside the TabStripItem. More about the usage of those properties can be found in the [Supported CSS Properties](#supported-css-properties) section.

Reviewer: Is this still the case?

:::

::: warning Note
On iOS, the TabStripItems can not be stylied individually.
:::

### Adding a shadow to a View on Android

On Android, to add a shadow to a View instance use the `androidElevation` property.

```xml
<StackLayout class="home-panel">
  <TextView
    class="tvElevation"
    editable="false"
    textWrap="true"
    text="TextView"
  ></TextView>

>   <label androidElevation="5" class="sampleLabel" textWrap="true" text="Label"></label>

Reviewer: Are the tags for `label` and `button` right?  Do they need to start with an uppercase character, or is it entirely optional?

```

```css
button:highlighted {
  background-color: red;
  color: gray;
}
```

### Root Views CSS Classes

To allow for flexible styling and theming, NativeScript provides the following CSS classes that can be added to the root views in the application for specific states.

- `.ns-root` - a class assigned to the application root view
- `.ns-modal` - a class assigned to the modal root view
- `.ns-android`, `.ns-ios` - classes that specify the application platform
- `.ns-phone`, `.ns-tablet` - classes that specify the device type
- `.ns-portrait`, `.ns-landscape`, `.ns-unknown` - classes that specify the application orientation
- `.ns-light`, `.ns-dark` - classes that specify the system appearance.

::: tip Note
In native modals in Angular, the classes are applied to the first layout view in your modal component's HTML. If you are targeting a class that is applied to the root layout in your modal, you would target it with `.ns-dark.your-class`.
:::

## Supported Measurement Units

NativeScript supports `DIPs` (Device Independent Pixels), `pixels` (via postfix px) and `percentages` (partial support for width, height and margin) as measurement units.

> NativeScript's recommended measurement unit is `DIP`. All measurable properties like width, height, margin, paddings, border-width, etc.) support `DIPs`. The font sizes are always measured in DIPs.

Reviewer: It is worth mentioning DIPs is the default measurement in general.
